hello everyone its Elena and in this
video I'll give you guys a broad
overview of my application to Princeton
University and the different things that
I think got me into Princeton
but I also do some more detailed videos
on two different components of a college
application in the future so subscribe
if you would like to see those videos
before we get into the application
itself I'm going to give you guys a
little bit of context about me because
colleges do take that into consideration
when they look at your application and
from a German middle-class family and my
parents are divorced and I went to a
German public school until 10th grade I
took bilingual classes in that school
which meant that I had some classes in
English but most of them were still
taught in German in 10th grade I got a
scholarship for a boarding school in
Hong Kong
which was the United World College
United World colleges are schools which
have the mission to promote
intercultural understanding peace and
sustainability around the globe so five
synapse scholarship I moved to Hong Kong
at the age of 16 and I studied to
International Baccalaureate there for
two years which meant that I then had
completed high school so what classes
did I take and which grades was I
predicted there I'm going to give you
guys my particular grades because you
apply to colleges with your predicted
grades and not with your actual grades
so I think that's a better
representation of what Princeton thought
of me at the time so I took English
language and literature higher level and
it was predicted seven there I check
history higher level and I was
predicting seven as well and I took
global politics higher level predicted
with a seven and then my standard level
subjects were biology where I was
predicted six French be where I was
predicted six as well and mathematical
studies where I was predicted seven I
wrote my extended essay in history and I
was predicted to be for that one and I
wrote my theory of knowledge essay and I
was pretty disappear that one too so
that meant that I was predicted a total
of 42 points if you guys want to know
what I actually got hit the button up
there and you can see my life reaction
to my real grades okay our dad I also
submitted my SAT to Princeton I took the
SAT ones and I did not take any subject
test because I kind of really
see the point of Subject Tests so I was
like now I'm gonna take SAT and I'm
gonna take it once and whatever comes
out of it I'm gonna live from it I ended
up getting a 1420 with 7 fatty on the
reaching and writing section and 690 on
the math section now I don't say if my
math score is probably not the math
sport you want to submit to Princeton
but on the other hand I am a math
studies student and if you don't know
the International Baccalaureate
Mathematica Studies is the easiest
course you can take in math and you
don't have any sections on the exam
where you don't have a calculator so to
know calculator section and the SAT is
actually really hard for math study
students so that's why I guess you might
have been like okay she takes this
course which doesn't really prepare for
the SAT math section so maybe do more
more forgiving towards that I don't know
but that's what I would guess and well
then regarding my application I
submitted my application for the common
application where you have one big essay
and then Princeton had a supplement
which was an essay that was basically
the same length as your big personal
essay from the common application and
then they had some shorter questions and
I will share those essays and the
shorter questions in future videos but I
think the most important part are not
really the essays but more what you do
outside school now I'm gonna share with
you guys the extracurriculars I do but I
think it's not just what you share with
the school like what you do but also
what your teachers share about it
because after all they're the ones
writing your letters of recommendation
so I think there's like two sides that
kind of like give the college an idea of
how active you are outside the classroom
and I think they both matter quite a lot
because your teachers can speak how
passionate you really are about these
things how involved you really are in
them because after all you could just
tell them oh I spend like 10 hours and
the
and reality is you never show up no
that's why I think both of these matter
I can only tell you what I said because
I don't know what we're in teachers room
okay
so regarding extracurriculars I was a
volunteer coordinator at a Hong
kong-based NGO called crossroads and I
worked there seven hours a week so I
spent my entire Saturday there and my
commute to crossroads was one and a half
hours so it was actually ten hours as a
commitment every week which was quite
tough but honestly it was so worth it I
also um was a debater until 10th grade
and then I switched debating for Model
United Nations where I became the leader
in 12th grade I was also the leader of
the yearbook team and I started doing
the yearbook at my old school in ninth
grade and a continued ad in Hong Kong in
my old school back in Germany I was also
on a student council and I was elected
to head girl in tenth grade I played
volleyball since ninth grade although I
do have to say I am NOT a very talented
volleyball player like not at all but I
have a lot of fun doing it so I
continued to play in and back in Germany
I was also a scout also back in Germany
I cheered a refugee child once a week
and I was a trained mediator and mentor
with focus on integration which meant
that I was able to do little activities
in my school and I was also sort of the
big sister of one younger class so when
they um had fights with one another they
could come to me and we would talk it
out
I also worked as a homework supervisor
for younger children and my old school
in Germany now it doesn't just matter
what you do during the school year it
also matters what you do over your
summer so in the summer between 11th and
12th grade I went to Stanford's high
school summer College and I earn human
rights intensive studies certificate
there I had to take two classes which
were related to human rights I had to go
to them for two months and actually take
exams in them and I got a 4.0 in both of
them which meant that I earned a
certificate now those are all the things
that you can easily like measure in
paper and they also want to see that you
have some hobbies outside school and
stuff so what I gave them there was that
I said oh I write a blog Lina Heinrich
could come and I have written it for
like over a year and a half at that
point like something like that
and I love taking pictures and I read a
lot now they also assess whether you
were honest about your things during the
interview so the alumni doesn't know
what you wrote in your application so
you're gonna have to tell them what
you're passionate about and they're
gonna see if you really enjoy the
activity if you actually did the
activity by how we talked about it
beside open an interview also plays in
quite a bit I think that's pretty much
all I can say about my application to
Princeton University if you guys have
any questions feel free to write them
down in the comments below or contact me
from my blog there's a contact section
it's linked below as well and you can
just write me a message and I'll get
back to you I would add thank you guys
so much for watching and subscribe if
you would like to see more of my videos
about my college applications bye